---
layout: post
title: "July '17 Meetup Minutes"
date: 2017-07-18
tags: psqgis-business qms address-match  time-series time-manager railroad point-aggregation
---

Held July 18th, 2017 at the Seattle Northgate Library with eight people attending, covering the following topics:
* [PSQGIS Business]({{page.url}}/#psgis-business)
* [QuickMapServices]({{page.url}}/#quickmapservices)
* [Address Matching]({{page.url}}/#address-matching)
* [Time Manager]({{page.url}}/#time-manger)
* [Railroad Data]({{page.url}}/#railroad-data)
* [Point Aggregation]({{page.url}}/#point-aggregation)

### PSQGIS Business ###

* We opened with a discussion of business. Stu Smith has decided to discontinue paying for Meetup.com and we will switch to a Google Groups [group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/psqgis). Peter Keum and Paul McCombs were added as co-organizers on the Meetup.com account for the remaining time, as well as managers of the Google Group.

### QuickMapServices ###

* Joel Masselink demonstrated the [Quick Map Services](http://nextgis.com/blog/quickmapservices/) plug-in for QGIS
	* Allows you to add web map services to qgis.
		* Google maps
		* Google satellite view
		* Open street map
		* Mapbox map services
	* We discussed what may or may not be legal to do with these map services.
		* Joel determined that commercial sources should not be used to enter data into open street map.
	* Once the plug-in is loaded go into Web Menu, select Quick Map Services go to Settings. Change to "More Services" tab and click on "Get Contribution Pack" and then click save.
	* Visibility tab in settings allows you to turn it off
	
### Address Matching ###
	
* A discussion of address matching resources yielded two recommendations from the group:
	* Openaddress.io
	* Geocod.io
	
### Time Manager ###
	
* Tom Macky is very interested in how to make a time series.
	* Check out the [Time Manager](https://anitagraser.com/projects/time-manager/) plug-in from Anita Grazer.
	
### Railroad Data ###

* Robert Catherman is looking for railroad data.
	* We discussed that Google doesn't allow people to copy and make use of the data they publish, outside of their official services.
	* Stu suggested looking to State government web sites for rail data.
	* Joel suggested the QuickOSM plug as a quick way to access rail data from open street map.

### Point Aggregation ###

* Stu demonstrated the aggregation of points
	* See this [blog post](https://anitagraser.com/2017/06/13/even-more-aggregations-qgis-point-cluster-renderer/) from Anita Grazer.
