---
layout: post
title: "April '18 Meetup Minutes"
date: 2018-04-10
tags: esri multipoint shape-file plugin nnjoin nearest-neighbor basemap pairwise-comparision
---

Covered Topics:
* Multipoint Shape File
* Federal and State ArcGIS Basemaps
* Nearest Neighbor
* Pairwise Comparision

The April meeting was held at [Interim CDA](http://interimicda.org/whatwedo/). Thanks again for their generous use of their conference room.

### Multipoint Shape File ###

Clifford came in with a multipoint layer sourced from a shape file that wasn't working with the shp2osm.py script he found. He need to make it into a single point layer. The group worked together to determine that he could open the shape file in QGIS and then use the _Multipart to Single Part_ option from the _Geometry Tools_ sub-menu on the _Vector_ menu.

### Federal and State ArcGIS Basemaps ###

Stu had a follow-up to [last month](201804-April)'s [basemap](\tags.html#basemap) topic. Mappingsupport.com has published a [basemap clearing house](https://mappingsupport.com) for Federal and State Esri ArcGIS servers. More details are available in Stu's [Basemaps & Map Services document](resources.html#Basemaps%20&%20Map%20Services).

### Nearest Neighbor ##

Stu demonstrated a plugin he had found to perform the nearest neighbor analysis, _[NNJoin](https://github.com/havatv/qgisnnjoinplugin)_.
* The nearest neighbor analysis identifies with feature in the _join_ layer is closest to each feature in the _input_ layer and calculates the distance between them.
* Remember that the distance in a geographic projection computing the distance in degrees produce problimatic results.
* Layers must be in the same projection for this to work.
* Stu used data in Alaska
    * _Input_ layer is points (bore holes)
    * _Join_ layer is polygons (lakes)
* Will operate on selected points and selected polygons if there are active selections.
* Outputs to an layer in memory without the option to specify writing it to disk.
* To save the output when the tool is done, you can save the resulting layer or join it to your initial point layer and copy the resulting data to a new field.
* You can specify the name of your distance field in the output layer.
* _Input_ layer can be generalized to centroid if it isn't already single point geometry.
*_ Join_ layer can be generalized to an existing spatial index.
    * _Data Management Tools_ -> _Create Spatial Index_
* Clifford experimented with the spatial index.
    * He first used the tool on address points and building polygons from his Bothel project.
    * With out spatial index setting it took less than 5 minutes
    * He created spatial index on the buildings and choose to use the indexing and it took much longer. This is the opposite of what we expected.
* You can specify the the same layer for both input and join to find nearest neighbors within one layer.

### Pairwise Comparision ###

Stu wanted to consider a related problem no addressed by _NNJoin_, distance from each feature to every other feature or pairwise comparision.
* May use with two layers or within a single layer.
* _Distance Matrix_ is built in to QGIS.
    * Multiple output algorithms to choose from:
        * **Default** gives a unique record for each pair of features and produces x^2 results from x features.
        * The second option produces a result with 1 row for each feature and a column for each feature producing a matrix style result.
            * **Warning**: shape files can only have 255 fields and so presents a limit to how many features can be processed with this option.
* Watch out! This will make exceedingly large outputs with relatively small inputs.
* Stu discussed how it is not possible to use anything but points with _Distance Matrix_.
* Paul lead a discussion of how we can emulate _Distance Matrix_ with _NNJoin_ by selecting each feature in the_join_ layer and run the tool separately for each single feature. Then appending them all resulting layers together  to match the default output algorithm.
* Clifford pointed out that you could name the distance field uniquely on each iteration and produce an output like the second ouput algorithm.

---------

If anyone has corrections or additions they would like to make to these notes please let Paul McCombs know, or submit a pull request on [github](https://github.com/psqgis/psqgis.github.io)
