---
layout: post
title: "June '18 Meetup Minutes"
date: 2018-06-12
tags: python-script field-calculator geometry-attributes qgis-3 raster interpolation aerial-photography geopackage king-county kepler.gl
---

Covered Topics:
* Python Programming
* Using Field Calculator with Geometry Attributes
* QGIS 3.0.3 for MacOS
* Interpolated Surface
* Sources of Ortho Imagery

The June meeting was held at [Interim CDA](http://interimicda.org/whatwedo/). Thanks again for their generous use of their conference room.

### Newcomers ###

* Tien and Helena from [Integral GIS](http://integralgis.com/) came to learn about QGIS. Their clients have brought an interest in open source tools to them prompting them to learn some alternatives to Esri software.
    * Clifford pointed out that QGIS 3.0 is not really ready for production work because of lack of plugins.
* Josh came looking to produce higher fidelity navigation maps for cycling, and is particularly interested in high resolution Lidar.

### Python Programming ###

* Clifford has found a good [Introduction to QGIS PyQGIS Python Programming](https://anitagraser.com/pyqgis-101-introduction-to-qgis-python-programming-for-non-programmers/) authored by Anita Graser, who has written some excellent books.
    * Clifford downloaded some data in geopackage format for the exercises given, but had some trouble opening them with QGIS 3.0. He was successful after three tries.
    * The group looked at using the `help()` function to learn about the QGIS objects, at the python prompt,  `help(iface)` returned documentation on the Qgisinterface class.
		
### Using Field Calculator with Geometry Attributes ###

* Peter asked for help from the group. He has data from the [King County GIS Open Data Portal](https://gis-kingcounty.opendata.arcgis.com/) and wants to add longitude and latitude columns using QGIS 3.0 and feed the result into the [kepler.gl](https://uber.github.io/kepler.gl/#/) data visualization tool.
    * He obtained a shape file of noxious weed data
    * Previously he had not been able to add the fields using QGIS 3.0 but was able to do it using [`ogr2ogr`](https://www.gdal.org/ogr2ogr.html).
    * The group explored using the field calculator in QGIS 3.0 to get the job done.
        * Peter said he tried it previously with 109k records, and it never completed.
        * Using _$x_ from the _Geometry_ group, it worked very quickly with 56 records.
        * We postulate that Peter did not enter edit mode first, which is necessary, and perhaps the error messages were not coming up on top of the various open windows.
    * It was suggested to use Vector -> Geometry Tools -> Add "something" but the group did not attempt that option.
    * After adding the latitude and longitude, Peter used the full data set with kepler.gl.
        * It did not work in Chrome on MacOS.
        * It did work in Safari.
		
### QGIS 3.0.3 for MacOS ###

* Clifford shared that QGIS 3.0.3 is available for mac now.
* Paul was able to successfully install it.

### Interpolated Surface ###

* Helena shared a problem they are having trying to emulate some of their existing solutions with open source tools. They want to create an interpolated surface clipped to a region, updated every five minutes from a  realtime data stream.
    * Currently they are using the interpolation plugin in QGIS and then clipping the result with a polygon.
    * They are trying to use the graphical modeler, but the plugins are not accessable from the graphical modeler.
    * They have not been able to get adequate graphic results using the interpolation provided by GRASS.
	
### Sources of Ortho Imagery ###

* Josh asked what sources of ortho imagery were available for use with QGIS.
    * Paul discussed an [Esri map service available from King County](http://gismaps.kingcounty.gov/arcgis/rest/services/BaseMaps/KingCo_Aerial_2017/MapServer) along with the dangers of screen scraping and that could result in an adverse reaction from the county.

### Possible Topics for the Future ###

* Josh has been discovering a lot of data sets and using QGIS to overlay them or crop them. He is also interested in trying to georeference SVG files and import them as shape files.

---------

If anyone has corrections or additions they would like to make to these notes please let Paul McCombs know, or submit a pull request on [github](https://github.com/psqgis/psqgis.github.io)
