---
layout: post
title: "April '19 Meetup Minutes"
date: 2019-05-14
tags: learning elevation bathymetry topography hillshade scp plugin raster atmospheric-correction kappa-hat blending-mode projections point-aggregation accessibility slope groundtruth
---

Covered Topics:
* _Discover GIS_ Text Book
* Elevation & Bathymetry
* Semi-automated Classification Plugin (SCP)
* Adventures in Trail Mapping
* Share Recent QGIS Experience

The April meeting was held at [Interim CDA](http://interimicda.org/whatwedo/). Thanks as always for their generous use of their conference room.

## Just Raw Notes for Now ##

* Attendance was 100%. 6 out of 6 RSVPs attended. Perhaps a first
* Stu is moving to Mission Ridge, but will still be flying out of Kenmore
* Peter Keum bought the Discover QGIS 3.x by Locate Press
  * https://locatepress.com/dq3
  * Used for college classes
  * Has a section about changes from 2.x to 3.x
  * Doesn't have a good index for reference purposes
  * About $25
* Clifford Snow got Learn QGIS: … 3.4 but hasn't really looked at it.
* Peter Keum: Elevation and Bathymetry
  * Drawing hillshade on top of color ramp elevation/bathymetry
  * Properties, Symbology, Color Rendering, Blending Mode Multiply looks better than darken. Adjust contrast.
* Robert Catherman: Partial review and completion of using SCP for "Classification of Land Use".
  * Volume 4 out of 5 in a series that is taught in Vietnam
  * Covers
    * Loading the plugin (SCP)
    * Downloading the Landsat images using SCP
      * SCP has a clip multiple rasters tool
    * Atmospheric correction of image
      * SCP can do it
      * USGS has level 2 images that are already corrected which the SCP author recommends if you can get it.
    * Define Regions of interest (ROI)
    * Classify areas of image
      * Pick areas as representative of classifications
      * Want to create classifications with very different values in the various spectral wave lengths (IR, Red, Green, Blue) for good classification
      * Can be told to be more fuzzy
    * Groundtruthing
      * Create random ROIs
      * Look at Google Earth to determine what the land is.
      * Performs an accuracy assessment
		* "Kappa hat" Kappa Coefficient or KHAT is the measure of accuracy - https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/02693799608902099
* Allie M - Trails Map
  * Having some trouble with the blend-mode and different projections
    * Important to leave the correct projection set for the layers.
  * We worked as a group on setting up using the blend-mode like Peter above
    * Tried hillshade or image on top.
    * Tried adjusting a lot of stuff.
    * Gave up on getting the blend tool from GRASS to work
  * Talked about Color Brewer
* Around the table, what have we been working on
  * Paul - Cluster centroids - Point Aggregation
  * Clifford - Accessibility data in 3 cities in NW Washington
    * Bellingham, Mt Vernon, 
    * Calculating slope for roads and trails
    * AccessMap.io - you can see how it is working for sidewalks
